chore: add kyverno-envoy-plugin blog post (#1270)
kyverno/website: content/en/blog/general/introducing-kyverno-envoy-plugin/index.md

---
date: 2024-06-04
title: Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin - Kyverno policies based authorization plugin for Envoy 

> linkTitle: Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin - Kyverno policies based authorizaiton plugin for Envoy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin - Kyverno policies based authorization plugin for Envoy
```

author: Sanskar Gurdasani
description: Make external authorization easy with kyverno-envoy-plugin.
---

![Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin](logo.png)

While microservices offer benefits by breaking applications into smaller, independent parts, they also introduce new challenges offcourse microservies improve productivity of individual development. Managing service discovery, authentication, and authorization across multiple microservices can be complex. These tasks become even more intricate due to the diverse and short-lived nature of microservice environments.

As more organizations move to using microservices, there is an increasing need for separate authentication and authorization mechanisms that work across different microservices.

> In this blog post, we will introduce [kyverno-envoy-plugin](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno-envoy-plugin), how it works and you can use this version of kyverno to enforce fine-grained, context-aware access control policies with Envoy without modifying your microservice or application code.

Reviewer: Words like "Kyverno", "Envoy", "Kubernetes" and others are proper nouns in English. They must be titled cased. Please make sure this is consistent throughout the post.

> ## What is Envoy?

Reviewer: No punctuation in headings for Markdown. This can cause problems in links later.

Here is the architecture when kyverno-envoy-plugin deployed as a separate pod to your application:

![architecture-pod](./arch-seprate-pod.png)

Performing policy evaluations locally with Envoy is advantageous, as it eliminates the need for an additional network hop for authorization checks, thus enhancing both performance and availability.

The kyverno-envoy-plugin can be deployed with Envoy-based sevice meshes such as [Istio](https://istio.io/), [Gloo](https://gloo.solo.io/), [Kuma](https://kuma.io/) etc.

## Getting started 

In this blog, we will deploy the kyverno-envoy-plugin as a sidecar container next to the application container. The plugin will handle authorizing incoming requests to the application. Additionally, [documentation](https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno-envoy-plugin/dev/) is provided for deploying the plugin as a separate pod.

Before we can look at Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin we need a Kubernetes cluster. We can create a local cluster with [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) and [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

### Create a local cluster

Start minikube cluster with the following command:

```sh
minikube start

> ```

Reviewer: Code fences need to be surrounded by a single empty line.

minikube:

```sh
export SERVICE_PORT=$(kubectl get service testapp -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.port==8080)].nodePort}')
export SERVICE_HOST=$(minikube ip)
export SERVICE_URL=$SERVICE_HOST:$SERVICE_PORT
echo $SERVICE_URL
```
### Calling the sample test application and verify the authorization 

For convenience, we’ll want to store Alice’s and Bob’s tokens in environment variables. Here bob is assigned the admin role and alice is assigned the guest role.

```bash 
export ALICE_TOKEN="eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjIyNDEwODE1MzksIm5iZiI6MTUxNDg1MTEzOSwicm9sZSI6Imd1ZXN0Iiwic3ViIjoiWVd4cFkyVT0ifQ.ja1bgvIt47393ba_WbSBm35NrUhdxM4mOVQN8iXz8lk"
export BOB_TOKEN="eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjIyNDEwODE1MzksIm5iZiI6MTUxNDg1MTEzOSwicm9sZSI6ImFkbWluIiwic3ViIjoiWVd4cFkyVT0ifQ.veMeVDYlulTdieeX-jxFZ_tCmqQ_K8rwx2OktUHv5Z0"
```

The policy we passed to kyverno-envoy-plugin sidecar in the ConfigMap `policy-config` is configured to check the conditions of the incoming request and denies the request if the user is a guest and the request method is `POST` at the `/book` path.

```yaml
apiVersion: json.kyverno.io/v1alpha1
kind: ValidatingPolicy
metadata:

>     name: checkrequest

Reviewer: Please fix indentation in this and any samples.

                http:
                    method: GET
                    headers:
                        authorization:
                            (split(@, ' ')[1]):
                                (jwt_decode(@ , 'secret').payload.role): guest
                    path: /book               
```

Check for `Alice` which can get book but cannot create book.

```bash
curl -i -H "Authorization: Bearer "$ALICE_TOKEN"" http://$SERVICE_URL/book
```
```bash
curl -i -H "Authorization: Bearer "$ALICE_TOKEN"" -d '{"bookname":"Harry Potter", "author":"J.K. Rowling"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://$SERVICE_URL/book
```
Check the `Bob` which can get book also create the book 

```bash
curl -i -H "Authorization: Bearer "$BOB_TOKEN"" http://$SERVICE_URL/book
```

```bash
curl -i -H "Authorization: Bearer "$BOB_TOKEN"" -d '{"bookname":"Harry Potter", "author":"J.K. Rowling"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://$SERVICE_URL/book
```

Check on logs 
```bash
kubectl logs "$(kubectl get pod -l app=testapp -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c kyverno-envoy-plugin -f
```
First , third and last request is passed but second request is failed.

```console 

> sanskar@sanskar-HP-Laptop-15s-du1xxx:~$ kubectl logs "$(kubectl get pod -l app=testapp -n demo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -n demo -c kyverno-envoy-plugin -f

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl logs "$(kubectl get pod -l app=testapp -n demo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -n demo -c kyverno-envoy-plugin -f
```

    periodSeconds: 5  
```

## Conclusion

This blog post demonstrated how the Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin can be effectively used to make external authorization decisions for incoming requests in a microservice architecture. By leveraging the power of Kyverno policies and Envoy's External Authorization filter, you can achieve fine-grained, context-aware access control without modifying your application code. This approach not only simplifies the management of security policies but also enhances the security posture of your services by ensuring that authorization checks are consistently applied across your microservices.

The Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin provides a robust solution for organizations looking to enforce policy-driven access controls in their service meshes. By following the steps outlined in this guide, you can easily deploy and configure the plugin, allowing you to take full advantage of Kyverno's policy capabilities in conjunction with Envoy's powerful proxy features.

For further exploration, you can checkout:

- 🔗 Check out the project on GitHub: https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno-envoy-plugin
- 📚 Browse the documentation: https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno-envoy-plugin

> 

Reviewer: Excessive new lines. Should only be one.

---
date: 2024-06-04
title: Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin - Kyverno policies based authorization plugin for Envoy 
linkTitle: Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin - Kyverno policies based authorization plugin for Envoy
author: Sanskar Gurdasani
description: Make external authorization easy with Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin.
---

![Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin](logo.png)

> While microservices offer benefits by breaking applications into smaller, independent parts, they also introduce new challenges offcourse microservies improve productivity of individual development. Managing service discovery, authentication, and authorization across multiple microservices can be complex. These tasks become even more intricate due to the diverse and short-lived nature of microservice environments.

Reviewer 2: offcourse?

Author: Shall we add a rephrased version of the above lines?
```
Microservices enhance the productivity of individual development teams by dividing applications into smaller, independent components. However, microservices alone do not address longstanding challenges in distributed systems such as authentication and authorization. These problems can become even harder to manage due to diverse and short-lived nature of the microservice environments.
```
Or can you suggest something to start the blog?

As more organizations move to using microservices, there is an increasing need for separate authentication and authorization mechanisms that work across different microservices.

> In this blog post, we will introduce [Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno-envoy-plugin), how it works and you can use this version of Kyverno to enforce fine-grained, context-aware access control policies with Envoy without modifying your microservice or application code.

Reviewer 2: works and you can -> works and **how** you can

## What is Envoy

[Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/what_is_envoy) is a Layer 7 proxy and communication bus tailored for large-scale, modern service-oriented architectures. Starting from version 1.7.0, Envoy includes an [External Authorization filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/security/ext_authz_filter.html) that interfaces with an authorization service to check if the incoming request is authorized or not. This functionality allows authorization decisions to be offloaded to an external service, which can access the request context. The request context includes details such as the origin and destination of the network activity, as well as specifics of the network request (e.g., HTTP request). This information enables the external service to make a well-informed decision regarding the authorization of the incoming request processed by Envoy.

> ## What is Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin

Reviewer 2: Should it just be Kyverno-Envoy Plugin

- A ConfigMap `policy-config` is used to pass the policy to Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin sidecar in the namespace `default` where the application is deployed .

- A ConfigMap `envoy-config` is used to pass an Envoy configuration with an External Authorization Filter to direct authorization checks to the Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin sidecar. 

- The Deployment also includes an init container that install iptables rules to redirect all container traffic to the Envoy proxy sidecar container , more about init container can be found [here](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno-envoy-plugin/tree/main/demo/standalone-envoy/envoy_iptables)

### Make Test application accessible in the cluster

```console 
kubectl expose deployment testapp --type=NodePort --name=testapp --port=8080
```
 
### Set the `SERVICE_URL` environment variable to the service's IP/port

minikube:

```sh
export SERVICE_PORT=$(kubectl get service testapp -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.port==8080)].nodePort}')
export SERVICE_HOST=$(minikube ip)
export SERVICE_URL=$SERVICE_HOST:$SERVICE_PORT
echo $SERVICE_URL
```

### Calling the sample test application and verify the authorization

> For convenience, we’ll want to store Alice’s and Bob’s tokens in environment variables. Here bob is assigned the admin role and alice is assigned the guest role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For convenience, we’ll store Alice’s and Bob’s tokens in environment variables (not recommended for production). Here Bob is assigned the `admin` role and Alice is assigned the `guest` role.
```

-> GET method call is allowed to both guest and admin users
 -> any[2].check.request.http.method: Invalid value: "POST": Expected value: "GET"
Request is initialized in kyvernojson engine .
2024/04/26 17:23:13 Request passed the deny-guest-request-at-post policy rule.
Request is initialized in kyvernojson engine .
2024/04/26 17:23:55 Request passed the deny-guest-request-at-post policy rule.
```

### Configuration

To deploy Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin include the following container in your Kubernetes Deployments:

```yaml
- name: kyverno-envoy-plugin
  image: sanskardevops/plugin:0.0.34
  imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  ports:
    - containerPort: 8181
    - containerPort: 9000
  volumeMounts:
    - readOnly: true
  args:
    - "serve"
    - "--policy=/policies/policy.yaml"
    - "--address=:9000"
    - "--healthaddress=:8181"
  livenessProbe:
    httpGet:
      path: /health
      scheme: HTTP
      port: 8181
    initialDelaySeconds: 5
    periodSeconds: 5
  readinessProbe:
    httpGet:
      path: /health
      scheme: HTTP
      port: 8181
    initialDelaySeconds: 5
    periodSeconds: 5  
```

## Conclusion

> This blog post demonstrated how the Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin can be effectively used to make external authorization decisions for incoming requests in a microservice architecture. By leveraging the power of Kyverno policies and Envoy's External Authorization filter, you can achieve fine-grained, context-aware access control without modifying your application code. This approach not only simplifies the management of security policies but also enhances the security posture of your services by ensuring that authorization checks are consistently applied across your microservices.

Reviewer 2: demonstrated -> demonstrates

> The Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin provides a robust solution for organizations looking to enforce policy-driven access controls in their service meshes. By following the steps outlined in this guide, you can easily deploy and configure the plugin, allowing you to take full advantage of Kyverno's policy capabilities in conjunction with Envoy's powerful proxy features.

Reviewer 2: Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin should all three words be hyphenated? Maybe Kyverno-Envoy plugin

Author: I used the hyphenated form "Kyverno-Envoy-Plugin" because the repository name follows that convention. I'm open to changing it to "Kyverno-Envoy plugin" if that would be more appropriate.
